 [IE]><script>window.isIE = true</script><![endif] Skip to main content Open menu Close menu xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? Generator: Adobe Illustrator 16.2.1, SVG Export Plug-In . SVG Version: 6.00 Build 0) Louder Together we're Louder Search Search Louder Subscribe (opens in new tab) (opens in new tab) (opens in new tab) (opens in new tab) (opens in new tab) Music Magazines (opens in new tab) (opens in new tab) Why subscribe? SUBSCRIBE AND NEVER MISS AN ISSUE! Every issue delivered direct to your door A subscription makes a thoughtful gift for both family and friends. Or why not treat yourself? Stay up to date with in depth music reviews, exclusive interviews and widespread coverage of whats happening from your favourite music genre! From £14.50 (opens in new tab) View Deal (opens in new tab) NEWS FEATURES REVIEWS SUBSCRIBE STORE Trending Glasto lineup announced James Hetfield cowboy movie Billboard record breakers When you purchase through links on our site, we may earn an affiliate commission. Here’s how it works . pink floyd Latest Updates Here are the 20 longest-charting albums in the history of the Billboard 200 By Simon Young published 3 March 23 Pink Floyd, Metallica, AC/DC and Nirvana classics are just some of the albums to have spent hundreds of weeks in the charts Cats: Roger Waters unveils first music from controversial new version of The Dark Side Of The Moon By Fraser Lewry published 2 March 23 "It's not a replacement for the original which, obviously, is irreplaceable" - Roger Waters Cats: Abbey Road and Pink Floyd launch exclusive Dark Side merch collection By Jerry Ewing published 1 March 23 Pink Floyd's seminal 1973 album The Dark Side Of The Moon celebrates its 50th anniversary this month Cats: Pink Floyd's The Dark Side Of The Moon: 20 things you didn't know By Glenn Povey published 1 March 23 We racked our brains, canvassed experts and drained the internet to bring you 20 things you didn’t know about Pink Floyd's The Dark Side Of The Moon, the fourth-best-selling album of all time Cats: Roger Waters concert cancelled by the City of Frankfurt over claims of anti-Semitism By Liz Scarlett published 27 February 23 Frankfurt's city council force the cancellation of a scheduled May gig from Pink Floyd's former frontman Roger Waters Cats: Roger Waters comes to David Gilmour's defence, slams journalist after "crappy" article By Fraser Lewry published 19 February 23 Roger Waters took to social media after an article repeated claims that he thought David Gilmour's guitar solos on The Dark Side Of The Moon were "horrible" Cats: Roger Waters has rerecorded The Dark Side of the Moon without Pink Floyd By Fraser Lewry published 8 February 23 "It’s my project and I wrote it. So... blah!” - Roger Waters Cats: Russia invites Roger Waters to speak to United Nations about Ukraine: "What next? Mr. Bean?" mocks U.N. diplomat By Paul Brannigan published 8 February 23 Days after Pink Floyd lyricist Polly Samson accuses Roger Waters of being "a Putin apologist", Russia has asked Roger Waters to address U.N. diplomats on arming Ukraine Cats: Roger Waters seeks legal advice on "incendiary" tweet by David Gilmour's partner Polly Samson calling Waters "antisemitic to your rotten core": Gilmour says accusation is "demonstrably true" By Paul Brannigan published 7 February 23 The animosity between former Pink Floyd duo Roger Water and David Gilmour spills into the public arena once more following a much-publicised tweet from Gilmour's partner Polly Samson Cats: Pink Floyd are being accused of exploiting artists with The Dark Side Of The Moon animation contest By Paul Brannigan published 27 January 23 Creatives are pointing out that artists entering Pink Floyd's new competition for animators will forfeit their copyright and future earnings from their entries Cats: Watch Pink Floyd's Syd Barrett trip on mushrooms for the very first time in this historic student film from 1966 By Liz Scarlett published 27 January 23 Syd Barrett wanders across Cambridge's Gog Magog Hills while embarking on his first psychedelic experience in this student film from the 1960s Cats: Pink Floyd fans are amused that the anti-woke mob are cancelling the band over the Dark Side Of The Moon 'rainbow' By Paul Brannigan published 20 January 23 A new Pink Floyd logo celebrating the 50th anniversary of The Dark Side Of The Moon has confused some less enlightened fans Cats: Pink Floyd confirm Dark Side Of The Moon 50th anniversary box set for March By Jerry Ewing published 19 January 23 Pink Floyd also announce vinyl release for Live At Wembley Empire Pool, London 1974 Cats: "An outstanding, iconic, genius guitar player": Led Zeppelin's Jimmy Page and Black Sabbath's Tony Iommi lead rock world tributes to Jeff Beck By Classic Rock published 11 January 23 Jimmy Page, David Gilmour, Paul McCartney, Rod Stewart, Ozzy Osbourne, Brian May, Ronnie Wood, Tony Iommi and more salute the life and legacy of the late Jeff Beck Cats: Pink Floyd Dark Side Of The Moon 50th anniversary book and box set coming this year By Jerry Ewing published 11 January 23 The Dark Side Of The Moon By Pink Floyd will be published in March with a luxury box set reportedly on the way too Cats: 20 spectacular reissues from 2022 you should definitely own By Classic Rock Magazine published 10 January 23 With notable anniversaries, mouth-watering retrospectives and great compilations, 2022 bestowed a ton of must-hear reissues upon us. Here are some that are definitely worth your time Cats: Pink Floyd thank fans after raising half a million pounds through charity single By Jerry Ewing published 24 December 22 Pink Floyd's released a new single, Hey Hey, Rise Up, earlier this year in aid of Ukrainian relief charities Cats: Pink Floyd share previously unheard Dark Side era live releases on streaming services By Jerry Ewing published 20 December 22 Pink Floyd quietly release 18 previously unreleased Dark Side Of The Moon era live shows on to streaming services Cats: Listen to Roger Waters' The Lockdown Sessions album, featuring reworked takes on Pink Floyd classics By Paul Brannigan published 9 December 22 Former Pink Floyd leader Roger Waters shares lockdown recordings of five songs originally featured on The Wall and The Final Cut Cats: Watch this YouTuber switch Metallica and Pink Floyd guitar solos with jaw-dropping results By Simon Young published 5 December 22 Bradley Hall plays Metallica’s Fade To Black and Pink Floyd’s Comfortably Numb solos like some sort of alchemist Cats: 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 View Archive Louder Newsletter Sign up below to get the latest from Louder, plus exclusive special offers, direct to your inbox! Name: Your Email Address : Contact me with news and offers from other Future brands Receive email from us on behalf of our trusted partners or sponsors Thank you for signing up to Louder. You will receive a verification email shortly. There was a problem. Please refresh the page and try again. By submitting your information you agree to the Terms & Conditions (opens in new tab) and Privacy Policy (opens in new tab) and are aged 16 or over. MORE FROM LOUDER... 1 Rocking Horse Music Club line-up guest-packed Trading Boundaries shows for March 2 These metal Ghost prints hit us harder than a Square Hammer 3 A metal band got their fans to play Twister in the middle of the mosh-pit, and it is absolute chaos 4 Enter Shikari drop new single Bloodshot about social media's power to "hypnotise" people towards hatred 5 Ghost's Mary On A Cross is now certified Silver in the UK Music Magazines (opens in new tab) ● (opens in new tab) SUBSCRIBE AND NEVER MISS AN ISSUE! From £14.50 (opens in new tab) View Deal (opens in new tab) Louder is part of Future plc, an international media group and leading digital publisher. Visit our corporate site (opens in new tab) . About Us (opens in new tab) Terms and conditions (opens in new tab) Privacy policy (opens in new tab) Cookies policy (opens in new tab) Accessibility Statement Careers (opens in new tab) ©Future Publishing Limited Quay House, The Ambury,BathBA1 1UA. All rights reserved. England and Wales company registration number 2008885. Begin comScore Tag End comScore Tag Google Tag Manager End Google Tag Manager document assets - added by the article itself 