 [IE]><script>window.isIE = true</script><![endif] Skip to main content xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? Generator: Adobe Illustrator 16.2.1, SVG Export Plug-In . SVG Version: 6.00 Build 0) CLASSIC ROCK METAL HAMMER PROG ONE LOUDER Open menu Close menu Louder Astounding sounds, amazing music Search Search Louder Subscribe (opens in new tab) (opens in new tab) (opens in new tab) (opens in new tab) Music Magazines (opens in new tab) (opens in new tab) Why subscribe? SUBSCRIBE AND NEVER MISS AN ISSUE! Every issue delivered direct to your door A subscription makes a thoughtful gift for both family and friends. Or why not treat yourself? Stay up to date with in depth music reviews, exclusive interviews and widespread coverage of whats happening from your favourite music genre! From £14.50 (opens in new tab) View (opens in new tab) NEWS FEATURES REVIEWS SUBSCRIBE STORE Trending Kate Bush - The Best Songs New issue on sale now! Tracks Of The Week Get Prog When you purchase through links on our site, we may earn an affiliate commission. Here’s how it works . Home News Prog Pink Floyd thank fans after raising half a million pounds through charity single By Jerry Ewing ( Prog ) published 24 December 2022 Pink Floyd's released a new single, Hey Hey, Rise Up, earlier this year in aid of Ukrainian relief charities (opens in new tab) (opens in new tab) (opens in new tab) (opens in new tab) (Image credit: Pink Floyd) Pink Floyd  have thanked their fans for helping the band to raise half a million pounds through their charity single  Hey Hey Rise Up . The new track was the band's first new original music they've recorded together as a band since 1994’s  The Division Bell  and alongside  David Gilmour  and  Nick Mason  featured long-time Floyd bassist Guy Pratt and keyboard player Sawhney on keyboards, plus vocals from Andriy Khlyvnyuk of Ukrainian band Boombox. The single, which was initially released digitally in April and was #1 in 27 countries, and  as a physical vinyl and CD single later. All proceed went to Ukraine Humanitarian Relief. "Pink Floyd would like to thank everyone who has supported  Hey, Hey, Rise Up ," the band say. "The single, recorded on 30th March with Andriy Khlyvnyuk of the Ukrainian band Boombox, has so far raised over £450,000 to help alleviate the suffering of the Ukrainian people. Season’s Greetings to you all and Slava Ukraini.” Gilmour and Mason have added £50,000 to make this up to £500,000 which will be distributed to the following humanitarian charities: Hospitallers Kharpp Vostok SOS Livyj Bereh Kyiv Volunteer You can watch the band's video for Hey Hey Rise Up below and purchase the single here . (Image credit: Press) Prog Newsletter Sign up below to get the latest from Prog, plus exclusive special offers, direct to your inbox! Contact me with news and offers from other Future brands Receive email from us on behalf of our trusted partners or sponsors By submitting your information you agree to the Terms & Conditions (opens in new tab) and Privacy Policy (opens in new tab) and are aged 16 or over. Jerry Ewing Social Links Navigation Writer and broadcaster Jerry Ewing is the Editor of Prog Magazine which he founded for Future Publishing in 2009. He grew up in Sydney and began his writing career in London for Metal Forces magazine in 1989. He has since written for Metal Hammer, Maxim, Vox, Stuff and Bizarre magazines, among others. He created and edited Classic Rock Magazine for Dennis Publishing in 1998 and is the author of a variety of books on both music and sport, including Wonderous Stories; A Journey Through The Landscape Of Progressive Rock. MORE FROM PROG 1 Ghost stories: the making of Gazpacho's March Of Ghosts 2 The Omnific's Toby Peterson-Stewart shares video for new solo single D.H.D. 3 King Crimson's Larks' Tongues at 50 on the cover of the new issue of Prog 4 Yes share video for brand new single Cut From The Stars 5 Emma Ruth Rundle shares unsettling new video for In My Afterlife Music Magazines (opens in new tab) ● (opens in new tab) SUBSCRIBE AND NEVER MISS AN ISSUE! From £14.50 (opens in new tab) View (opens in new tab) Louder is part of Future plc, an international media group and leading digital publisher. Visit our corporate site (opens in new tab) . About Us (opens in new tab) Terms and conditions (opens in new tab) Privacy policy (opens in new tab) Cookies policy (opens in new tab) Accessibility Statement Careers (opens in new tab) ©Future Publishing Limited Quay House, The Ambury,BathBA1 1UA. All rights reserved. England and Wales company registration number 2008885. Begin comScore Tag End comScore Tag Google Tag Manager End Google Tag Manager document assets - added by the article itself 