 [IE]><script>window.isIE = true</script><![endif] Skip to main content xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? Generator: Adobe Illustrator 16.2.1, SVG Export Plug-In . SVG Version: 6.00 Build 0) CLASSIC ROCK METAL HAMMER PROG ONE LOUDER Open menu Close menu Louder The Home Of High Voltage Rock'N'Roll Search Search Louder Subscribe (opens in new tab) (opens in new tab) (opens in new tab) (opens in new tab) Music Magazines (opens in new tab) (opens in new tab) Why subscribe? SUBSCRIBE AND NEVER MISS AN ISSUE! Every issue delivered direct to your door A subscription makes a thoughtful gift for both family and friends. Or why not treat yourself? Stay up to date with in depth music reviews, exclusive interviews and widespread coverage of whats happening from your favourite music genre! From £14.50 (opens in new tab) View (opens in new tab) NEWS FEATURES REVIEWS SUBSCRIBE NEWSLETTER STORE Trending Gary Rossington Guns N' Roses albums Tracks of the Week Get Classic Rock When you purchase through links on our site, we may earn an affiliate commission. Here’s how it works . Home News Classic Rock Pink Floyd's The Dark Side Of The Moon voted best rock album ever By Classic Rock last updated 20 September 2022 Pink Floyd's classic album voted number one ahead of Guns N' Roses and Led Zeppelin (opens in new tab) (opens in new tab) (opens in new tab) (opens in new tab) Pink Floyd 's album The Dark Side Of The Moon has been voted the greatest rock album ever. The album was released in 1973, and had since gone on to sell over 45 million copies.  The vote took place on the Louder website over the last few weeks, with thousands of votes being placed for more than 500 different albums. Unlike most polls, which offer voters a finite list of titles to choose from, the poll allowed people to choose any album at all. While major names like Judas Priest, Pantera, Genesis, King Crimson, Genesis, Boston and Slipknot fell just short of the Top 50, some artists ended up with multiple albums in the final count, including Led Zeppelin, The Beatles, Black Sabbath and Floyd, whose albums The Wall and Wish You Were Here both made the Top 20.    The Top 10 is as follows: 10. Led Zeppelin: Physical Graffiti 9. Iron Maiden - The Number Of The Beast 8. AC/DC: Powerage 7. The Beatles: Sgt. Pepper's Lonely Hearts Club Band 6. Queen: A Night At The Opera  5. Led Zeppelin: IV  4. Metallica: Master Of Puppets 3. AC/DC: Back In Black 2. Guns N' Roses - Appetite For Destruction 1: Pink Floyd - The Dark Side Of The Moon Read the entire Top 50 .  Classic Rock Newsletter Sign up below to get the latest from Classic Rock, plus exclusive special offers, direct to your inbox! Contact me with news and offers from other Future brands Receive email from us on behalf of our trusted partners or sponsors By submitting your information you agree to the Terms & Conditions (opens in new tab) and Privacy Policy (opens in new tab) and are aged 16 or over. Classic Rock Social Links Navigation Classic Rock is the online home of the world's best rock'n'roll magazine. We bring you breaking news, exclusive interviews and behind-the-scenes features, as well as unrivalled access to the biggest names in rock music; from Led Zeppelin to Deep Purple, Guns N’ Roses to the Rolling Stones, AC/DC to the Sex Pistols, and everything in between. Our expert writers bring you the very best on established and emerging bands plus everything you need to know about the mightiest new music releases. MORE FROM CLASSIC ROCK 1 The rock world reacts to the death of Lynyrd Skynyrd's Gary Rossington 2 Gov't Mule announce Pink Floyd tribute tour with Jason Bonham 3 Iconic TV show The Midnight Special is now on YouTube and it promises to be a classic rock goldmine 4 The Black Crowes celebrate their successful reunion with Shake Your Money Maker Live album 5 Europe: Walk The Earth - Album Of The Week Club review Music Magazines (opens in new tab) ● (opens in new tab) SUBSCRIBE AND NEVER MISS AN ISSUE! From £14.50 (opens in new tab) View (opens in new tab) Louder is part of Future plc, an international media group and leading digital publisher. Visit our corporate site (opens in new tab) . About Us (opens in new tab) Terms and conditions (opens in new tab) Privacy policy (opens in new tab) Cookies policy (opens in new tab) Accessibility Statement Careers (opens in new tab) ©Future Publishing Limited Quay House, The Ambury,BathBA1 1UA. All rights reserved. England and Wales company registration number 2008885. Begin comScore Tag End comScore Tag Google Tag Manager End Google Tag Manager document assets - added by the article itself 