 [IE]><script>window.isIE = true</script><![endif] Skip to main content xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? Generator: Adobe Illustrator 16.2.1, SVG Export Plug-In . SVG Version: 6.00 Build 0) CLASSIC ROCK METAL HAMMER PROG ONE LOUDER Open menu Close menu Louder Astounding sounds, amazing music Search Search Louder Subscribe (opens in new tab) (opens in new tab) (opens in new tab) (opens in new tab) Music Magazines (opens in new tab) (opens in new tab) Why subscribe? SUBSCRIBE AND NEVER MISS AN ISSUE! Every issue delivered direct to your door A subscription makes a thoughtful gift for both family and friends. Or why not treat yourself? Stay up to date with in depth music reviews, exclusive interviews and widespread coverage of whats happening from your favourite music genre! From £14.50 (opens in new tab) View (opens in new tab) NEWS FEATURES REVIEWS SUBSCRIBE STORE Trending Yes - The Best Songs New issue on sale now! Tracks Of The Week Get Prog When you purchase through links on our site, we may earn an affiliate commission. Here’s how it works . Home News Prog Roger Waters has rerecorded The Dark Side of the Moon without Pink Floyd By Fraser Lewry ( Prog ) published 8 February 2023 "It’s my project and I wrote it. So... blah!” - Roger Waters (opens in new tab) (opens in new tab) (opens in new tab) (opens in new tab) (Image credit: MediaNews Group/East Bay Times via Getty Images ) Roger Waters has rerecorded Pink Floyd 's classic The Dark Side Of The Moon – and he's done so without any of the current members of Pink Floyd. Waters, who's currently engaged in another war of words with his former Pink Floyd bandmate David Gilmour , revealed the news in an interview with The Daily Telegraph (opens in new tab) [paywalled link]. "I wrote The Dark Side of the Moon," Waters tells the Telegraph 's Tristram Fane Saunders. "Let’s get rid of all this ‘we’ crap! Of course we were a band, there were four of us, we all contributed – but it’s my project and I wrote it. So... blah!” Saunders, who was played Waters' rerecording of the 45-million-selling album, reports that " Time , that young man’s lament for mortality, sounds terrific with his old man’s timbre. Breathe is wonderfully reimagined as a slow, acoustic groove. A country-tinged Money could be a late Johnny Cash cut, with Waters growling charismatically at the very bottom of his register.  "But, surprisingly, Waters seems to have decided that what was wrong with the original album’s beautiful instrumental tracks was that they didn’t have Waters talking all over them. Now they do." Elsewhere in the interview, Waters takes his formers bandmates to task, claiming, "They can’t write songs, they’ve nothing to say. They are not artists! They have no ideas, not a single one between them. They never have had, and that drives them crazy.” He also reiterates his views on the war in Ukraine saying, "The Ukraine is a deeply divided country. In fact, it’s not really a country at all, it’s only been there since Khrushchev, 1956. So it’s a patchy sort of vague experiment.” Meanwhile, Waters has also addressed The UN about the war in Ukraine. You can watch the video below. Prog Newsletter Sign up below to get the latest from Prog, plus exclusive special offers, direct to your inbox! Contact me with news and offers from other Future brands Receive email from us on behalf of our trusted partners or sponsors By submitting your information you agree to the Terms & Conditions (opens in new tab) and Privacy Policy (opens in new tab) and are aged 16 or over. Fraser Lewry Social Links Navigation Online Editor at Louder/Classic Rock magazine since 2014. 37 years in music industry, online for 24. Also bylines for: Metal Hammer, Prog Magazine, The Word Magazine, The Guardian, The New Statesman, Saga, Music365. Former Head of Music at Xfm Radio, A&R at Fiction Records, early blogger, ex-roadie, published author. Once appeared in a Cure video dressed as a cowboy, and thinks any situation can be improved by the introduction of cats. Favourite Serbian trumpeter: Dejan Petrović.   MORE FROM PROG 1 Rocking Horse Music Club line-up guest-packed Trading Boundaries shows for March 2 Dark electronic prog duo Lethe sign to Dark Essence Records 3 Post-rock collective Silver Moth stream ethereal new single The Eternal 4 Tears For Fears unveil 40th anniversary edition of The Hurting 5 Peter Gabriel announces first North American tour in more than a decade Music Magazines (opens in new tab) ● (opens in new tab) SUBSCRIBE AND NEVER MISS AN ISSUE! From £14.50 (opens in new tab) View (opens in new tab) Louder is part of Future plc, an international media group and leading digital publisher. Visit our corporate site (opens in new tab) . About Us (opens in new tab) Terms and conditions (opens in new tab) Privacy policy (opens in new tab) Cookies policy (opens in new tab) Accessibility Statement Careers (opens in new tab) ©Future Publishing Limited Quay House, The Ambury,BathBA1 1UA. All rights reserved. England and Wales company registration number 2008885. Begin comScore Tag End comScore Tag Google Tag Manager End Google Tag Manager document assets - added by the article itself 