 [IE]><script>window.isIE = true</script><![endif] Skip to main content xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? Generator: Adobe Illustrator 16.2.1, SVG Export Plug-In . SVG Version: 6.00 Build 0) CLASSIC ROCK METAL HAMMER PROG ONE LOUDER Open menu Close menu Louder The Home Of High Voltage Rock'N'Roll Search Search Louder Subscribe (opens in new tab) (opens in new tab) (opens in new tab) (opens in new tab) promotionFallbackMessage NEWS FEATURES REVIEWS SUBSCRIBE NEWSLETTER STORE Trending Gary Rossington Guns N' Roses albums Tracks of the Week Get Classic Rock When you purchase through links on our site, we may earn an affiliate commission. Here’s how it works . Home News Classic Rock Watch Pink Floyd's Syd Barrett trip on mushrooms for the very first time in this historic student film from 1966 By Liz Scarlett ( Classic Rock ) published 27 January 2023 Syd Barrett wanders across Cambridge's Gog Magog Hills while embarking on his first psychedelic experience in this student film from the 1960s (opens in new tab) (opens in new tab) (opens in new tab) (opens in new tab) (Image credit: Nigel Lesmoir-Gordon / YouTube) While his abuse of illicit substances would eventually contribute to the breakdown of his career, Syd Barrett's early experiences with psychedelics provided an entrancing world of artistic opportunity and inspiration. In early footage recorded by film student Nigel Lesmoir-Gordon, Pink Floyd 's  co-founder can be seen embarking on his very first mushroom trip.  Split into two parts, the film, simply titled Syd Barrett's First Trip, sees the musician in the first section (captured on 8mm film in 1966)  tripping at Gog Magog Hills in Cambridge, whilst in the company of friends. As transcendental backing-music plays out  (which was added later by fans), the screen transitions over rocky mounds and rolling hills, as Barrett appears mesmerised by the surrounding environment. Later, he stares at the palms of his hands, seemingly bewildered by the profound - and perhaps life-changing - experience. "David Gale is there along with Andrew Rawlinson, Russell Page, Lucy Pryor and my wife, Jenny. She's the one in the yellow mac talking to the tree. The mushroom images are iconic and will last forever" explains Gordon. He adds, "It is an unselfconscious film. It was not planned. It just happened". In the second part, it shows Barrett and his band Pink Floyd, who have just signed their major contract with EMI, inside Abbey Road Studios working on new material in 1967. "It's raw, unedited footage and stunning even so. It is silent but many people have subsequently put music to it" the filmmaker offers.  The video documents Barrett's recreational use of the drug, his continued use of hallucinogenic and psychedelic substances played a part in the eventual disintegration of his mental health. As his replacement David Gilmour noted in 2006 , his abuse of psychedelics "acted as a catalyst" which impacted negatively upon his mental health. Syd Barrett passed away on July 7, 2006 in his home in Cambridge.  Watch the footage below: Classic Rock Newsletter Sign up below to get the latest from Classic Rock, plus exclusive special offers, direct to your inbox! Contact me with news and offers from other Future brands Receive email from us on behalf of our trusted partners or sponsors By submitting your information you agree to the Terms & Conditions (opens in new tab) and Privacy Policy (opens in new tab) and are aged 16 or over. Liz Scarlett Social Links Navigation Liz works on keeping the Louder sites up to date with the latest news from the world of rock and metal. Prior to joining Louder as a full time staff writer, she completed a Diploma with the National Council for the Training of Journalists and received a First Class Honours Degree in Popular Music Journalism. She enjoys writing about anything from neo-glam rock to stoner, doom and progressive metal, and loves celebrating women in music. MORE FROM CLASSIC ROCK 1 John Fogerty announces two UK arena shows 2 Phil Lynott calmly explaining on breakfast TV that using heroin can be "very enjoyable" makes for heartbreaking viewing 3 The Cure announce 2023 North American tour 4 A new docu-series celebrating Britpop is going be to premiering this weekend 5 Mikkey Dee says Lemmy had "no idea" that he was dying despite health struggles Louder is part of Future plc, an international media group and leading digital publisher. Visit our corporate site (opens in new tab) . About Us (opens in new tab) Terms and conditions (opens in new tab) Privacy policy (opens in new tab) Cookies policy (opens in new tab) Accessibility Statement Careers (opens in new tab) ©Future Publishing Limited Quay House, The Ambury,BathBA1 1UA. All rights reserved. England and Wales company registration number 2008885. Begin comScore Tag End comScore Tag Google Tag Manager End Google Tag Manager document assets - added by the article itself 